[A] Answer the following:

(a) The FILE structure is defined in which of the following files:

    1. stdlib.h
    2. stdio.c
    3. io.h
    4. stdio.h
    
    Answer : stdio.h
    
(b) If a file contains the line "Iam a boy\r\n" then on reading this line in 
    to the array str[] usinf fgets() what would str[] contain?
    
    1. I am a boy\r\n\o	
    2. I am a boy\r\o
    3. I am a boyn\o
    4. I am a boy
    
    Answer : I am a boy
    
(c) State True or False

1. The disadvantage of high-level file I/O functions is that the programmer has
   to manage the file buffers - False
   
2. If a file is opened for reading, it is necessary that the file must exist - True

3. If a file opened for writing already exists, it contents would be overwritten - False

4. For opening a file in append mode, it is necessary that file should exist - False

(d) On opening a file for reading which of the following activites are performed:

	1. The disk is searched for existence of the file. 
	2. The file is brought in to memory.
	3. A pointer is set up which points to the first character in the file.
	4. All the above.
	
	Answer : 4. All the above.

(e) Is it necessary that a file is created in text mode must always be opened in text mode
    for subsequent operations?
    
    Answer : Yes

(f) While using this statement
    
    fp = fopen("myfile.c", "r");
    
    what happens if,
    
    - 'myfile.c' does not exist on the disk
    - 'myfile.c' exists on the disk
    
    Answer : If 'myfile.c' does not exist on the disk, the file cannot be opened.
             If 'myfile.c' exist on the disk, the contents of the file is opened.

(g) While using the statement,
	
		fp = fopen("myfile.c", "wb");
		
		what happens if,
		
		- 'myfile.c' does not exist on the disk
		- 'myfile.c exists on the disk
	
	Answer : If 'myfile.c' does not exist on the disk, a new file will be created.
                 If 'myfile.c' exist on the disk, the contents of the file are overwritten.
                 
(h) A floating-point array contains percentage marks obtained by students in an examination.
    To store these marks in a file 'marks.dat', in which mode would you open the file and why?
    
    Answer : "w" mode is used, to create a file and write the contents in to the file. 
		
		
    
     

